gestalt/ward-master/plans.md, before:

# Gestalt

* Race: Human
* Class A: Warder (Dervish Defender, Sworn Protector)
* Class B: Dips
* Abilities: 8/19/12, 18/11/7 (Using Dual Talent)

This is an unarmed variant on the warder gestalt. Inspiration from:
* http://www.giantitp.com/forums/showthread.php?410561-Master-of-the-Seikuken-Building-an-Unarmed-Warder
* http://www.giantitp.com/forums/showthread.php?417766-Building-an-unarmed-Warder

### Potential Dips

* Flowing Monk 1: Wis to AC/CMD, free trip/redirect, IUS, Improved Trip
  - Possibly L2: Evasion, Unbalancing Counter
* Rogue 1: Skills, Sneak Attack 1d6, trapfinding
* Brawler 1: Martial Flexibility
* Dragon Fury 2: +1 attack/damage, power attack, reuse counters
* Shadowdancer 1: Hide in Plain Sight
* Aegis 3 (Trailblazer): Student of the Astral Suit. Only if Ben approves a Light Armor option.
* Ninja 2: more sneak attack, vanishing trick, ki pool
* Stalker (Soul Hunter) 1: Extra Trick, stealth stance, soul burn 1d6
* Witch 1: Ward Hex, Familiar
* Magus 4: 2nd level spells, Arcana (Tattoos) (12.5g each), Spellstrike, Spell Combat, Spell Recall,
           Arcane Pool (INT+2). That's 12 level 1 spells per day
* Fighter 2: Bonus Feats

### Dipping Plan:

* Flowing Monk 1      Maneuver Tricks, Imp Unarmed, Imp Trip
* Fighter (LW) 1-2    +2 skills, bonus feat x2, Combat Expertise
* Aegis 1-2           Speed, Dex
* Shadowdancer 1      HiPS
* Aegis 3             Student of the Arcane Suit (mostly bonus damage)
* Stalker (SH) 1      Vanish, Ki pool, Soul Burn 1d6, Stealth Stance
* Dragon Fury 1-2     More Ki, +1 damage/attack, Power attack++, Dance of TC (reuse counters)
* Magus 1-4           More Casting, Spell Recall, 1 Arcana (Tattoos?)
* Witch 1             Ward Hex, Familiar, more arcane spells
* Aegis or Magus X    Advance either casting or Astral Suit

### Feats Plan
* Level 1: Weapon Finesse
  - (Monk 1) Imp Unarmed
  - (Monk 1) Imp Trip
  - (Ward 1) Combat Reflexes
  - (DDef 1) Two Weapon Fighting
* Level 2
  - (LoWa 1) Deadly Agility
* Level 3: Mobility
  - (LoWa 2) Combat Expertise
  - (LoWa 2) Vicious Stomp
* Level 5: Dodge
* Level 7: Student of the Astral Suit
* Level 8: (Ward 8) Fury's Fall (dex to trip)
* Level 9: Greater Trip
* Level 11: Discipline Focus (BB)

### Playtest
* Pick up a level of Harbringer for the +INT/2 to attack, 10' speed bonus
* Use trait to get Mithral 

### Playbook

We want to be a very effective tank, be able to deal lots of damage, add some occasional utility,
and stealth like a boss. In particular, I should be able to pose a sufficient threat to make sure
they won't just run past me - I'm going to stack up the counters and hold my ground with my zone
of defense. If things get too tense, I can vanish and run.

I'll be stacking Heal and Stealth skills and bonuses - by level 6 (Shadowdancer), we ought to be
able to stealth right past a lot of groups. When that's not a good option, we can get a surprise
round every combat.

The two-weapon fisticuffs appears to scale well enough to qualify as a serious damage dealer, when
I don't need to spend my rounds defending. Flowing Monk will allow me to trip and abuse anyone
focusing on me.

Finally, I can trip. I can trip a lot of guys, and kick them on the way down (later on, twice each).
I get a free trip attempt every time somebody tries to hit me - if I succeed, they are sick for a
round and prone. At level 3 I can take a free AoO on them for going prone, at level 9 I can take
*another* free AoO on them for being tripped. At this point they are prone AND sickened, for a net
-6 to attack and -2 to damage - if they had more attacks to make, it won't hurt much. Even better,
once I get the 'push' feature online on my astral suit, I can use that AoO (the second one
if I had two) to push them one square away, where they probably can't even hit my. Tack it onto
the normal Warder Zone of Control, and we are looking at a lot of prone guys with a lot of kicked
faces - I can Trip *as* my AoO, which provokes 1-2 more AoOs. Though I may not want to take
them - I only have 5-6 per round, and making everyone prone is usually better than killing one guy.
Cause standing up from prone provokes an AoO.. and when you give a moose a muffin..

The tripping part of the build is most of the reason we want four levels of Magus later - enlarge
person gets me a HUGE threatened zone, even without my full-round action. I take up four
squares, and I get a reach of 10', which means there's a 6x6 block of threatened area around me.
Magus can cast arcane spells in light armor, and can spend arcane points to recall spells. Four
levels of Magus gets us a level 2 spell and 12 level 1 spells (spell recall with 7 arcane points).
That's 12 enlarge person casts, each lasting 4 minutes. It's hard to sneak around while large,
but by that point I'll generally be able to precast and then pounce into combat.

### Feats of Interest
* Weapon Finesse
* Deadly Agility
* Vicious Stomp (AoO from opponent falling prone)
* Greater Trip (AoO from successful trip)
* Mobility (For Shadowdancer)
* Dodge (for Shadowdancer)
* (6) Improved Two Weapon Fighting
* (7) Student of the Astral Suit
* Discipline Focus (Broken Blade)
* Psionic Trip
* Combat Expertise
* Fury's Fall (Dex to Trip CMB)

### Playtest
If Ben will allow stuff from the current PoW2 playtest, Mithril Current provides interesting
options for countering.

Commit message:

replace flowing monk with maneuver master

gestalt/ward-master/plans.md, after:

# Gestalt

* Race: Human
* Class A: Warder (Dervish Defender, Sworn Protector)
* Class B: Dips
* Abilities: 8/19/12, 18/11/7 (Using Dual Talent)

This is an unarmed variant on the warder gestalt. Inspiration from:
* http://www.giantitp.com/forums/showthread.php?410561-Master-of-the-Seikuken-Building-an-Unarmed-Warder
* http://www.giantitp.com/forums/showthread.php?417766-Building-an-unarmed-Warder

### Potential Dips

* Flowing Monk 1: Wis to AC/CMD, free trip/redirect, IUS, Improved Trip
  - Possibly L2: Evasion, Unbalancing Counter
* Rogue 1: Skills, Sneak Attack 1d6, trapfinding
* Brawler 1: Martial Flexibility
* Dragon Fury 2: +1 attack/damage, power attack, reuse counters
* Shadowdancer 1: Hide in Plain Sight
* Aegis 3 (Trailblazer): Student of the Astral Suit. Only if Ben approves a Light Armor option.
* Ninja 2: more sneak attack, vanishing trick, ki pool
* Stalker (Soul Hunter) 1: Extra Trick, stealth stance, soul burn 1d6
* Witch 1: Ward Hex, Familiar
* Magus 4: 2nd level spells, Arcana (Tattoos) (12.5g each), Spellstrike, Spell Combat, Spell Recall,
           Arcane Pool (INT+2). That's 12 level 1 spells per day
* Fighter 2: Bonus Feats

### Dipping Plan:

* Maneuver Monk 1     Flurry of Maneuvers, Imp Unarmed, Imp Trip
* Fighter (LW) 1-2    +2 skills, bonus feat x2, Combat Expertise
* Aegis 1-2           Speed, Dex
* Shadowdancer 1      HiPS
* Aegis 3             Student of the Arcane Suit (mostly bonus damage)
* Stalker (SH) 1      Vanish, Ki pool, Soul Burn 1d6, Stealth Stance
* Dragon Fury 1-2     More Ki, +1 damage/attack, Power attack++, Dance of TC (reuse counters)
* Magus 1-4           More Casting, Spell Recall, 1 Arcana (Tattoos?)
* Witch 1             Ward Hex, Familiar, more arcane spells
* Aegis or Magus X    Advance either casting or Astral Suit

### Feats Plan
* Level 1: Weapon Finesse
  - (Monk 1) Imp Unarmed
  - (Monk 1) Imp Trip
  - (Ward 1) Combat Reflexes
  - (DDef 1) Two Weapon Fighting
* Level 2
  - (LoWa 1) Deadly Agility
* Level 3: Mobility
  - (LoWa 2) Combat Expertise
  - (LoWa 2) Vicious Stomp
* Level 5: Dodge
* Level 7: Student of the Astral Suit
* Level 8: (Ward 8) Fury's Fall (dex to trip)
* Level 9: Greater Trip
* Level 11: Discipline Focus (BB)

### Playtest
* Pick up a level of Harbringer for the +INT/2 to attack, 10' speed bonus
* Use trait to get Mithral 

### Playbook

We want to be a very effective tank, be able to deal lots of damage, add some occasional utility,
and stealth like a boss. In particular, I should be able to pose a sufficient threat to make sure
they won't just run past me - I'm going to stack up the counters and hold my ground with my zone
of defense. If things get too tense, I can vanish and run.

I'll be stacking Heal and Stealth skills and bonuses - by level 6 (Shadowdancer), we ought to be
able to stealth right past a lot of groups. When that's not a good option, we can get a surprise
round every combat.

The two-weapon fisticuffs appears to scale well enough to qualify as a serious damage dealer, when
I don't need to spend my rounds defending. Flowing Monk will allow me to trip and abuse anyone
focusing on me.

Finally, I can trip. I can trip a lot of guys, and kick them on the way down (later on, twice each).
I get a free trip attempt on each full attack. At level 3 I can take a free AoO on them for going
prone, at level 9 I can take *another* free AoO on them for being tripped. At this point they are
prone, for -4 to attack - if they had more attacks to make, it won't hurt much. Even better,
once I get the 'push' feature online on my astral suit, I can use that AoO (the second one
if I had two) to push them one square away, where they probably can't even hit me. Tack it onto
the normal Warder Zone of Control, and we are looking at a lot of prone guys with a lot of kicked
faces - I can Trip *as* my AoO, which provokes 1-2 more AoOs. Though I may not want to take
them - I only have 5-6 per round, and making everyone prone is usually better than killing one guy.
Cause standing up from prone provokes an AoO.. and when you give a moose a muffin..

The tripping part of the build is most of the reason we want four levels of Magus later - enlarge
person gets me a HUGE threatened zone, even without my full-round action. I take up four
squares, and I get a reach of 10', which means there's a 6x6 block of threatened area around me.
Magus can cast arcane spells in light armor, and can spend arcane points to recall spells. Four
levels of Magus gets us a level 2 spell and 12 level 1 spells (spell recall with 7 arcane points).
That's 12 enlarge person casts, each lasting 4 minutes. It's hard to sneak around while large,
but by that point I'll generally be able to precast and then pounce into combat.

### Feats of Interest
* Weapon Finesse
* Deadly Agility
* Vicious Stomp (AoO from opponent falling prone)
* Greater Trip (AoO from successful trip)
* Mobility (For Shadowdancer)
* Dodge (for Shadowdancer)
* (6) Improved Two Weapon Fighting
* (7) Student of the Astral Suit
* Discipline Focus (Broken Blade)
* Psionic Trip
* Combat Expertise
* Fury's Fall (Dex to Trip CMB)

### Playtest
If Ben will allow stuff from the current PoW2 playtest, Mithril Current provides interesting
options for countering.
